---
layout: post
title:  'Paper "“All Roads Lead to Rome:” Optimistic Recovery for Distributed
Iterative Data Processing" accepted at CIKM 2013'
date:   2013-10-21 9:57:18
categories: publication conference
---

Our paper "“All Roads Lead to Rome:” Optimistic Recovery for Distributed
Iterative Data Processing" authored by Sebastian Schelter, Kostas
Tzoumas, Stephan Ewen and Volker Markl has been accepted accepted at the
ACM International Conference on Information and Knowledge Management
(CIKM 2013) in San Francisco.

**Abstract**

Executing data-parallel iterative algorithms on large datasets is
crucial for many advanced analytical applications in the fields of data
mining and machine learning. Current systems for executing iterative
tasks in large clusters typically achieve fault tolerance through
rollback recovery. The principle behind this pessimistic approach is to
periodically checkpoint the algorithm state. Upon failure, the system
restores a consistent state from a previously written checkpoint and
resumes execution from that point.

We propose an optimistic recovery mechanism using algorithmic
compensations. Our method leverages the robust, self-correcting nature
of a large class of fixpoint algorithms used in data mining and machine
learning, which converge to the correct solution from various
intermediate consistent states. In the case of a failure, we apply a
user-defined compensate function that algorithmically creates such a
consistent state, instead of rolling back to a previous checkpointed
state. Our optimistic recovery does not checkpoint any state and hence
achieves optimal failure-free performance with respect to the overhead
necessary for guaranteeing fault tolerance. We illustrate the
applicability of this approach for three wide classes of problems.
Furthermore, we show how to implement the proposed optimistic recovery
mechanism in a data flow system. Similar to the Combine operator in
MapReduce, our proposed functionality is optional and can be applied to
increase performance without changing the semantics of programs. In an
experimental evaluation on large datasets, we show that our proposed
approach provides optimal failure-free performance. In the absence of
failures our optimistic scheme is able to outperform a pessimistic
approach by a factor of two to five. In presence of failures, our
approach provides fast recovery and outperforms pessimistic approaches
in the majority of cases.

<a href="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/papers/optimistic.pdf">Download the paper [PDF]</a>

